#How to change themes.

= How to change Themes =
This is just a draft written after some successful tests in changing the Timeline theme.

== Create a new theme ==
The starting point will be the *`ClassicTheme`* found [http://simile.mit.edu/timeline/api/scripts/themes.js here]. 

Copy the contents of the file to a new JS file. Then, delete this part of the code:
{{{
Timeline.ClassicTheme.implementations = [];

Timeline.ClassicTheme.create = function(locale) {
    if (locale == null) {
        locale = Timeline.Platform.getDefaultLocale();
    }
    
    var f = Timeline.ClassicTheme.implementations[locale];
    if (f == null) {
        f = Timeline.ClassicTheme._Impl;
    }
    return new f();
};
}}}

You're left with the declaration of the theme and the implementation of a method called *`_Impl`*. 

 # Replace all the *`ClassicTheme'* in the code with your theme name. (i.e. *`MyNewTheme`*. 
 # Change the first line in order to copy the ClassicTheme's prototype to yours:
 (((Timeline.MyNewTheme = Timeline.ClassicTheme;}}}
 # Finally, change the values you can find in *`_Impl`* to create your theme. The properties names are quite self-explanatory. ;)

You may also create new CSS classes to apply to the markers and to the event bubble.

== Apply the theme to your Timeline ==

Each band of the Timeline may have its own theme. The theme is chosen when you create each band with *`createBandInfo()`*, using the "theme" parameter.

To apply a different theme, add this line to your call to *`createBandInfo()`*:
{{{theme: Timeline.MyNewTheme.create()}}}

Here is a complete example of a call *`createBandInfo()`*:
{{{
   var bandInfos = [Timeline.createBandInfo({
			eventSource: eventSource,
			date: date.toGMTString(),
			width: "70%",
			intervalUnit: Timeline.DateTime.MONTH,
			intervalPixels: 200,
			theme: Timeline.MyNewTheme.create()    //initialize the theme
		}),
		Timeline.createBandInfo({
			eventSource: eventSource,
			showEventText: false,
			trackHeight: 0.5,
			trackGap: 0.2,
			date: date.toGMTString(),
			width: "30%",
			intervalUnit: Timeline.DateTime.YEAR,
			intervalPixels: 400,
			theme: Timeline.MyNewTheme.create()   // ... and here !
		})
	];
}}}

And voilà ! don't forget to include the new Theme's JS file in your web page...